content/en/docs/central/cli_central/_index.md, before:

---
title: Get started with AMPLIFY Central CLI
linkTitle: AMPLIFY Central CLI
weight: 150
date: 2020-05-29T00:00:00.000Z
hide_readingtime: true
description: Getting started with the AMPLIFY Central CLI to support a DevOps approach to API Management
---

## What is the AMPLIFY Central CLI

The AMPLIFY Central CLI is a package for managing AMPLIFY Central resources with a DevOps approach to API Management. This is an external CLI add-on package to the AMPLIFY CLI (ACLI).  For more information, see [AMPLIFY Platform CLI](https://docs.axway.com/bundle/Amplify_CLI_allOS_en/page/amplify_cli.html).

## How does the AMPLIFY Central CLI support a DevOps approach

The AMPLIFY Central CLI enables DevOps to perform API Management tasks on AMPLIFY Central, such as the delivery of new API service to your customers. A DevOps AMPLIFY Central supports your DevOps processes by providing an API and a CLI for you to automate your configuration and deployments.

In the case of the Axway SaaS Gateway, you can create API proxies and deploy them to runtime groups using the AMPLIFY Central CLI. You can test the API proxies and view the traffic monitoring results through the AMPLIFY Central UI.

You can also create representations of your environments and API services, which are not synchronized with AMPLIFY Central, using the AMPLIFY Central CLI. These are shown as Manual Sync in AMPLIFY Central and these API Services can be published to the Unified Catalog for your customers to consume.  

This DevOps-friendly approach can be accomplished using scripts of CLI commands with configuration files in YAML or JSON format.  As a result, you can automate, deploy, and integrate services faster into your DevOps lifecycle process.

Commit message:

APIGOV-17765 Update CLI docs with info regarding new Axway Central CLI Package; change 'AMPLIFY' to 'Amplify' (#1751)
* APIGOV-17765 update CLI docs with new instructions for Axway Central CLI

* APIGOV-17765 add 'amplify central cli' uninstall command to docs

* APIGOV-17765 clarify installation instructions

* APIGOV-17765 add npm required version to CLI install docs

* Update cli_install.md

typo

* Update _index.md

punctuation

* Update deploy-your-agents-with-the-amplify-cli.md

missing period

Co-authored-by: Ravi Savajiyani <rsavajiyani@axway.com>
Co-authored-by: lbadenhop <lbadenhop@axway.com>

content/en/docs/central/cli_central/_index.md, after:

---
title: Get started with Axway Central CLI
linkTitle: Axway Central CLI
weight: 150
date: 2020-05-29T00:00:00.000Z
hide_readingtime: true
description: Getting started with the Axway Central CLI to support a DevOps approach to API Management
---

## What is the Axway Central CLI

The Axway Central CLI is a package for managing Amplify Central resources with a DevOps approach to API Management. This is an external CLI add-on package to the Axway CLI (ACLI).  For more information, see [Amplify Platform CLI](https://docs.axway.com/bundle/Amplify_CLI_allOS_en/page/amplify_cli.html).

## How does the Axway Central CLI support a DevOps approach

The Axway Central CLI enables DevOps to perform API Management tasks on Amplify Central, such as the delivery of new API service to your customers. A DevOps Amplify Central supports your DevOps processes by providing an API and a CLI for you to automate your configuration and deployments.

In the case of the Axway SaaS Gateway, you can create API proxies and deploy them to runtime groups using the Axway Central CLI. You can test the API proxies and view the traffic monitoring results through the Amplify Central UI.

You can also create representations of your environments and API services, which are not synchronized with Amplify Central, using the Axway Central CLI. These are shown as Manual Sync in Amplify Central and these API Services can be published to the Unified Catalog for your customers to consume.  

This DevOps-friendly approach can be accomplished using scripts of CLI commands with configuration files in YAML or JSON format.  As a result, you can automate, deploy, and integrate services faster into your DevOps lifecycle process.
