content/en/docs/central/connect-aws-gateway/subscription-for-the-consumer.md, before:

---
title: Feature - Manage subscription workflow
linkTitle: Feature - Manage subscription workflow
draft: false
weight: 45
description: A subscription provides the consumer, or subscriber, with the
  required security, quota and endpoint materials to correctly consume the API.
  The security material and/or quota to access an API is configured inside the
  usage plan on AWS API Gateway.
---
## Supported use cases when consumer subscribes to an API

* **API providers allow the subscriber to create a usage plan** (property `AWS_ALLOWUSAGEPLANAUTOCREATION=true` set in the Discovery Agent configuration file): the agent generates the usage plan and adds access to the API from the newly created usage plan.
* **Usage plan has no access to the API** in AWS API Gateway: the agent adds access to the API from the selected usage plan.
* **Usage plan already has access to the API** in AWS API Gateway: the agent has nothing to do.

## Supported use cases for issuing consumer credentials

The property `AWS_SUBSCRIPTIONSISSUENEWCREDENTIALS` allows the API provider to issue new credentials each time a consumer subscribes to an API (default behavior) or reuses existing credentials.

* **generate new credentials** (default): new ApiKey is generated per subscription and store within the selected usage plan.
* **reuse existing credentials** (property `AWS_SUBSCRIPTIONSISSUENEWCREDENTIALS=false` set in the Discovery Agent configuration file): The agent sends the first non repudiated credentials available in the usage plan to the subscriber.

## Supported use cases for subscription approval

Each API can define its own approval mode:

* manual (default): an API provider approves the subscription before the consumer receives the API credentials.
(Optional) the agent configuration contains webhook information that is triggered on each subscription state change. The webhook implementation can, for instance, trigger an MS Teams card to a dedicated Teams channel where the API provider will approve the subscription.
* automatic: the subscription is auto-approve without human intervention.

## Supported use cases for receiving API credentials

Once the subscription is approved, the agent catches the event from AMPLIFY Central and, based on its configuration, can forward the credentials using either an SMTP server or a webhook.

* **email**: the agent configuration contains the access details to an SMTP server (endpoint / port / credentials, if any) and the templates for the emails. Emails can be trigger when the subscription succeeds, fails or when unsubscribes to an API. The agent configuration allows you to customize the email template with several properties:

    * `${catalogItemUrl}`: url of the catalog item to help the consumer find it easily
    * `${catalogItemName}`: name of the catalog item
    * `${keyHeaderName}` / `${key}`: apiKey header name and apiKey value
    * `${clientID}` /  `${clientSecret}`: oauth clientID and clientSecret to request the oauth token
    * `${message}`: error message raised by the agent when subscription or unsubscribe fails.

For more information about this configuration, see [Customizing SMTP notifications](/docs/central/connect-api-manager/gateway-administation/#customizing-smtp-notification-subscription).

* **webhook**: the agent configuration contains the webhook details about where to send the payload (catalog asset url / catalog asset name / subscriber email / credentials / action=APPROVE / authtemplate=preconfigure security template sentence).

Webhook payload definition:

```json
{
    "type": "object",
    "properties": {
        "catalogItemId": {
            "type": "string"
        },
        "catalogItemUrl": {
            "type": "string"
        },
        "catalogItemName": {
            "type": "string"
        },
        "action": {
            "type": "string"
        },
        "email": {
            "type": "string"
        },
        "key": {
            "type": "string"
        },
        "keyHeaderName": {
            "type": "string"
        },
        "authtemplate": {
            "type": "string"
        }
    }
}
```

The payload is base64 encoded when sent to the webhook endpoint.

Request sample sent to the webhook endpoint:

```
{
    "headers": {
        "Accept-Encoding": "gzip",
        "Host": "<webHook url>",
        "User-Agent": "EnterpriseEdgeGatewayDiscoveryAgent/<agent_version>",
        "Contenttype": "application/json",
        "Content-Length": "485"
    },
    "body": {
        "$content-type": "application/octet-stream",
        "$content": "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"
    }
}
```

## Subscription workflow

1. (Optional) An administrator creates one or more usage plans on AWS API Gateway that provides the necessary security feature (API key / authorizer) and quota, if needed.
2. An administrator adds associated API stages to the usage plan(s).
3. A consumer initiates the subscription in AMPLIFY Central:

   1. Open an AMPLIFY Catalog item.
   2. Click **Subscribe**.
   3. Select a Team and usage plan for which you wish to subscribe. **WARNING**: The subscription will fail if you select a usage plan for which no API stages have been added. For additional information, see [Manage AMPLIFY Catalog subscriptions](/docs/catalog/manage_subscriptions/).
4. The Discovery Agent receives the subscription event:

   Subscription status: **Subscribing...**

   1. Associate the API to the selected application.
   2. Add a tag `Subscriptions-<subscriptionID from AMPLIFY Central>` with the value `<apiId>-<Apistage>` on the usage plan.
   3. Send back the subscription status.

   Subscription status: **Active**

   * If failure, subscription status: **Subscription failed**. Refer to the Discovery Agent log for more information. You can delete the subscription and start again from Step 2.
5. The subscriber consumes the API:

   * The API can be consumed once the subscription details are received.

{{< alert title="Note" color="primary" >}}Depending on the poll interval settings for the Discovery Agent, it will take a little time from when the user subscribes an API to a usage plan until AMPLIFY Central shows the subscription state of **Active**. This is because of the time it takes to discover the change on API Manager and send events back and forth between API Manager and AMPLIFY Central.{{< /alert >}}

## Unsubscribe workflow

1. A consumer initiates unsubscribe:

   1. Open the AMPLIFY Catalog and navigate to the **Subscription** tab.
   2. Unsubscribe from the active subscription.  For additional information, see [Manage AMPLIFY Catalog subscriptions](/docs/catalog/manage_subscriptions/).

2. The Discovery Agent receives the Unsubscribe event:

   * The `subscriptions-<subscriptionID from AMPLIFY Central>` is removed from the usage plan.
   * Initiates an unsubscribe to AMPLIFY Central for that Catalog item.
   * The subscription status is set to **Unsubscribed**.

## Impact of subscription approval mode on subscription workflow

The configuration setting for central.subscriptions.approvalmode will affect the flow of getting a subscription approved. Allowed settings are **manual**, **auto**, and **webhook**. Each of these are detailed below.

### Manual approval mode

This is the default setting. In manual approval mode, the subscription approval flow is as follows:

1. A consumer in AMPLIFY Central clicks on **Subscribe**.
2. The subscription status moves to **Waiting for approval...**.
3. The subscription remains in this state until a user with appropriate permissions on AMPLIFY Central locates the subscription and clicks **Approve**.
4. The subscription status moves to  **Subscribing**.
5. The Discovery Agent receives the event and sets the status to **Active**, or **Subscribe failed** if there is a failure to subscribe.

### Auto approval mode

In auto approval mode, the subscription approval flow is as described at the top of this page:

1. A consumer in AMPLIFY Central clicks on **Subscribe**.
2. The subscription status moves immediately to **Subscribing...**.
3. The Discovery Agent receives the event and sets the status to **Active**, or **Subscribe failed** if there is a failure to subscribe.

### Webhook approval mode

In webhook approval mode, the Discovery Agent must be configured with a webhook url, and any webhook headers and authentication secret that the webhook needs. Within the webhook, many things are possible. For example, the webhook could generate an email to notify someone that a subscription is awaiting approval. Or, the webhook could do the subscription approval. Assuming that the webhook is all correctly configured and coded, the subscription approval flow is as follows:

1. A consumer in AMPLIFY Central clicks on **Subscribe**.
2. The subscription status moves to **Waiting for approval...**.
3. The webhook is notified of the event.
4. The subscription remains in this state until the webhook moves the subscription to **Approved**, or a user with appropriate permissions on AMPLIFY Central locates the subscription and clicks **Approve**.
5. The subscription status moves to  **Subscribing**.
6. The Discovery Agent receives the event and sets the status to **Active**, or **Subscribe failed** if there is a failure to subscribe.

{{< alert title="Note" color="primary" >}}Depending on the poll interval settings for the Discovery Agent, it will take a little time from when the user unsubscribes an API until AMPLIFY Central shows the subscription state of **Unsubscribed**. This is because of the time it takes to discover the change on API Manager and send events back and forth between API Manager and AMPLIFY Central.{{< /alert >}}

## Subscription failures

The agent might mark a subscription as **Failed to subscribe** or **Failed to unsubscribe** for one of several reasons:

1. The API on API Gateway Manager is unpublished.
2. No usage plans have been created on AWS API Gateway.
3. On AWS API Gateway, usage plans have been created but no API stages have been added to the plan for the chosen subscription's API.
4. On AWS API Gateway, no API keys have been added to the subscription's chosen usage plan.
5. The agent fails to communicate with AWS API Gateway.

Commit message:

APIGOV-17429 Change AMPLIFY to Amplify (#1608)
* replaced image

* change AMPLIFY to Amplify

content/en/docs/central/connect-aws-gateway/subscription-for-the-consumer.md, after:

---
title: Feature - Manage subscription workflow
linkTitle: Feature - Manage subscription workflow
draft: false
weight: 45
description: A subscription provides the consumer, or subscriber, with the
  required security, quota and endpoint materials to correctly consume the API.
  The security material and/or quota to access an API is configured inside the
  usage plan on AWS API Gateway.
---
## Supported use cases when consumer subscribes to an API

* **API providers allow the subscriber to create a usage plan** (property `AWS_ALLOWUSAGEPLANAUTOCREATION=true` set in the Discovery Agent configuration file): the agent generates the usage plan and adds access to the API from the newly created usage plan.
* **Usage plan has no access to the API** in AWS API Gateway: the agent adds access to the API from the selected usage plan.
* **Usage plan already has access to the API** in AWS API Gateway: the agent has nothing to do.

## Supported use cases for issuing consumer credentials

The property `AWS_SUBSCRIPTIONSISSUENEWCREDENTIALS` allows the API provider to issue new credentials each time a consumer subscribes to an API (default behavior) or reuses existing credentials.

* **generate new credentials** (default): new ApiKey is generated per subscription and store within the selected usage plan.
* **reuse existing credentials** (property `AWS_SUBSCRIPTIONSISSUENEWCREDENTIALS=false` set in the Discovery Agent configuration file): The agent sends the first non repudiated credentials available in the usage plan to the subscriber.

## Supported use cases for subscription approval

Each API can define its own approval mode:

* manual (default): an API provider approves the subscription before the consumer receives the API credentials.
(Optional) the agent configuration contains webhook information that is triggered on each subscription state change. The webhook implementation can, for instance, trigger an MS Teams card to a dedicated Teams channel where the API provider will approve the subscription.
* automatic: the subscription is auto-approve without human intervention.

## Supported use cases for receiving API credentials

Once the subscription is approved, the agent catches the event from Amplify Central and, based on its configuration, can forward the credentials using either an SMTP server or a webhook.

* **email**: the agent configuration contains the access details to an SMTP server (endpoint / port / credentials, if any) and the templates for the emails. Emails can be trigger when the subscription succeeds, fails or when unsubscribes to an API. The agent configuration allows you to customize the email template with several properties:

    * `${catalogItemUrl}`: url of the catalog item to help the consumer find it easily
    * `${catalogItemName}`: name of the catalog item
    * `${keyHeaderName}` / `${key}`: apiKey header name and apiKey value
    * `${clientID}` /  `${clientSecret}`: oauth clientID and clientSecret to request the oauth token
    * `${message}`: error message raised by the agent when subscription or unsubscribe fails.

For more information about this configuration, see [Customizing SMTP notifications](/docs/central/connect-api-manager/gateway-administation/#customizing-smtp-notification-subscription).

* **webhook**: the agent configuration contains the webhook details about where to send the payload (catalog asset url / catalog asset name / subscriber email / credentials / action=APPROVE / authtemplate=preconfigure security template sentence).

Webhook payload definition:

```json
{
    "type": "object",
    "properties": {
        "catalogItemId": {
            "type": "string"
        },
        "catalogItemUrl": {
            "type": "string"
        },
        "catalogItemName": {
            "type": "string"
        },
        "action": {
            "type": "string"
        },
        "email": {
            "type": "string"
        },
        "key": {
            "type": "string"
        },
        "keyHeaderName": {
            "type": "string"
        },
        "authtemplate": {
            "type": "string"
        }
    }
}
```

The payload is base64 encoded when sent to the webhook endpoint.

Request sample sent to the webhook endpoint:

```
{
    "headers": {
        "Accept-Encoding": "gzip",
        "Host": "<webHook url>",
        "User-Agent": "EnterpriseEdgeGatewayDiscoveryAgent/<agent_version>",
        "Contenttype": "application/json",
        "Content-Length": "485"
    },
    "body": {
        "$content-type": "application/octet-stream",
        "$content": "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"
    }
}
```

## Subscription workflow

1. (Optional) An administrator creates one or more usage plans on AWS API Gateway that provides the necessary security feature (API key / authorizer) and quota, if needed.
2. An administrator adds associated API stages to the usage plan(s).
3. A consumer initiates the subscription in Amplify Central:

   1. Open an Amplify Catalog item.
   2. Click **Subscribe**.
   3. Select a Team and usage plan for which you wish to subscribe. **WARNING**: The subscription will fail if you select a usage plan for which no API stages have been added. For additional information, see [Manage Amplify Catalog subscriptions](/docs/catalog/manage_subscriptions/).
4. The Discovery Agent receives the subscription event:

   Subscription status: **Subscribing...**

   1. Associate the API to the selected application.
   2. Add a tag `Subscriptions-<subscriptionID from Amplify Central>` with the value `<apiId>-<Apistage>` on the usage plan.
   3. Send back the subscription status.

   Subscription status: **Active**

   * If failure, subscription status: **Subscription failed**. Refer to the Discovery Agent log for more information. You can delete the subscription and start again from Step 2.
5. The subscriber consumes the API:

   * The API can be consumed once the subscription details are received.

{{< alert title="Note" color="primary" >}}Depending on the poll interval settings for the Discovery Agent, it will take a little time from when the user subscribes an API to a usage plan until Amplify Central shows the subscription state of **Active**. This is because of the time it takes to discover the change on API Manager and send events back and forth between API Manager and Amplify Central.{{< /alert >}}

## Unsubscribe workflow

1. A consumer initiates unsubscribe:

   1. Open the Amplify Catalog and navigate to the **Subscription** tab.
   2. Unsubscribe from the active subscription.  For additional information, see [Manage Amplify Catalog subscriptions](/docs/catalog/manage_subscriptions/).

2. The Discovery Agent receives the Unsubscribe event:

   * The `subscriptions-<subscriptionID from Amplify Central>` is removed from the usage plan.
   * Initiates an unsubscribe to Amplify Central for that Catalog item.
   * The subscription status is set to **Unsubscribed**.

## Impact of subscription approval mode on subscription workflow

The configuration setting for central.subscriptions.approvalmode will affect the flow of getting a subscription approved. Allowed settings are **manual**, **auto**, and **webhook**. Each of these are detailed below.

### Manual approval mode

This is the default setting. In manual approval mode, the subscription approval flow is as follows:

1. A consumer in Amplify Central clicks on **Subscribe**.
2. The subscription status moves to **Waiting for approval...**.
3. The subscription remains in this state until a user with appropriate permissions on Amplify Central locates the subscription and clicks **Approve**.
4. The subscription status moves to  **Subscribing**.
5. The Discovery Agent receives the event and sets the status to **Active**, or **Subscribe failed** if there is a failure to subscribe.

### Auto approval mode

In auto approval mode, the subscription approval flow is as described at the top of this page:

1. A consumer in Amplify Central clicks on **Subscribe**.
2. The subscription status moves immediately to **Subscribing...**.
3. The Discovery Agent receives the event and sets the status to **Active**, or **Subscribe failed** if there is a failure to subscribe.

### Webhook approval mode

In webhook approval mode, the Discovery Agent must be configured with a webhook url, and any webhook headers and authentication secret that the webhook needs. Within the webhook, many things are possible. For example, the webhook could generate an email to notify someone that a subscription is awaiting approval. Or, the webhook could do the subscription approval. Assuming that the webhook is all correctly configured and coded, the subscription approval flow is as follows:

1. A consumer in Amplify Central clicks on **Subscribe**.
2. The subscription status moves to **Waiting for approval...**.
3. The webhook is notified of the event.
4. The subscription remains in this state until the webhook moves the subscription to **Approved**, or a user with appropriate permissions on Amplify Central locates the subscription and clicks **Approve**.
5. The subscription status moves to  **Subscribing**.
6. The Discovery Agent receives the event and sets the status to **Active**, or **Subscribe failed** if there is a failure to subscribe.

{{< alert title="Note" color="primary" >}}Depending on the poll interval settings for the Discovery Agent, it will take a little time from when the user unsubscribes an API until Amplify Central shows the subscription state of **Unsubscribed**. This is because of the time it takes to discover the change on API Manager and send events back and forth between API Manager and Amplify Central.{{< /alert >}}

## Subscription failures

The agent might mark a subscription as **Failed to subscribe** or **Failed to unsubscribe** for one of several reasons:

1. The API on API Gateway Manager is unpublished.
2. No usage plans have been created on AWS API Gateway.
3. On AWS API Gateway, usage plans have been created but no API stages have been added to the plan for the chosen subscription's API.
4. On AWS API Gateway, no API keys have been added to the subscription's chosen usage plan.
5. The agent fails to communicate with AWS API Gateway.
